# prototype-luminosity-sensor

This prototype has been designed to give information as a luminosity sensor. The purpose of this prototype is to give the user detailed information of the brightness of a certain location and act accordingly when in certain light conditions. An excellent use case for this product is mobile phones projectors or computer screens. The prototype displays a certain luminosity value measured in lux (lx) onto the LCD screen. This is useful for situations where it is required to know the amount of light that is entering an area so that the brightness of an LED can be altered. The switch is implemented to indicate that the prototype Is functioning. When one switch is pressed the sensor begins recording data and displays text upon the screen. when the second switch is pressed it disables the LED. This shows the use of a switch, an LED, as well as the LCD screen. The BH1750 sensor is used to calculate the luminosity of the light that is incoming. This is done through analogue input. The analogue input is then converted to digital input using the ADC converter in the Arduino. This ADC conversion is what controls the backlight LED of the LCD screen. If it is above a certain value, the LED will light up. This shows use of the ADC converter. Interrupt based debouncing has also been implemented onto the two switches to prevent double presses. This is especially useful for when data on the luminosity is not required. The program also uses a timer module to output the time of the 16-bit timer. This value is received as a serial output to the computer. The serial output also shows the value of the luminosity.
